Documentation updates for researchers (#1966)
opensafely/documentation: docs/repositories.md

## Repository visibility

In accordance with the [Principles of OpenSAFELY](https://www.opensafely.org/about/#transparency-and-public-logs), we expect all code from all users to be made public.

> By default, repositories will initially be public, visible to anyone. Repositories may be temporarily set to private, visible to members of the opensafely organization only, [by request](#how-to-make-your-repository-private).

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
By default, repositories will initially be public, visible to anyone. Repositories may be temporarily set to private, visible to members of the `opensafely` GitHub organization only, [by request](#how-to-make-your-repository-private).
```

### When you need to make your code public

> A repository must be made public if it forms part of a [publication](https://www.opensafely.org/policies-for-researchers/#acknowledgment-and-data-sharing--publication-policy). We have a [guide to publishing repositories](project-completion.md) that you must read. During the development stage of a project, a repository may be kept private, so that only members of the [`opensafely` GitHub organisation](https://github.com/opensafely) are able to view it. We welcome people sharing code in public while they are developing, where they wish to do so, but we recognise that for many this would be a little like drafting a paper entirely in public, so it is not a requirement. Even when there is no publication, we expect all repositories to become public, within twelve months after first code execution.

Reviewer: suggestion:

Let's add the link to "how to make your repository private".

```suggestion
A repository must be made public if it forms part of a [publication](https://www.opensafely.org/policies-for-researchers/#acknowledgment-and-data-sharing--publication-policy). We have a [guide to publishing repositories](project-completion.md) that you must read. During the development stage of a project, a [repository may be kept private](#how-to-make-your-repository-private), so that only members of the [`opensafely` GitHub organisation](https://github.com/opensafely) are able to view it. We welcome people sharing code in public while they are developing, where they wish to do so, but we recognise that for many this would be a little like drafting a paper entirely in public, so it is not a requirement. Even when there is no publication, we expect all repositories to become public, within twelve months after first code execution.
```

!!! warning
    You should _never_ commit files or content that should not be made public to the repository. All committed files, whether on the `main` branch or on development branches, will remain in the git history of the repository even after they have been deleted. These might include for example patient- or commercially-sensitive data from other sources, internal institutional documentation or forms, and incomplete manuscript drafts.

## Creating a repository for a project

To create a repository for your OpenSAFELY project, you can either:

- Have a new repository created for you in the `opensafely` GitHub organisation

> - Create a repository in your own GitHub account, and request to have this transferred to the `opensafely` GitHub organisation later

Reviewer: thought: Since this is an entire duplication of the text elsewhere, it is possible to make it reusable [via a snippet](https://facelessuser.github.io/pymdown-extensions/extensions/snippets/#snippets).

*But it's also small enough that this is probably fine to leave it as is, and duplicated.*

> ### Default opensafely repository settings

Reviewer: suggestion:

```suggestion
### Default repository settings in the GitHub `opensafely` organisation
```

Any repositories created within, or transferred to, the `opensafely` organisation, will be configured with the settings, listed below:

- Deletion of branches on merge: enabled
- Branch protection for `master` and `main` branches: enabled
- Require a pull request review before merging: disabled

### New researchers and projects

> When you are approved to start working on an OpenSAFELY research project, you will be added to the `opensafely` GitHub organisation. Within the `opensafely` GitHub organisation, you’ll be added to the `researchers` team.

Reviewer: suggestion: Add a small clarification.

```suggestion
When you are approved to start working on an OpenSAFELY research project, you will be added to the `opensafely` GitHub organisation. Within the `opensafely` GitHub organisation, you’ll be added to the `researchers` team to provide repository access.
```

> When you are approved to start working on an OpenSAFELY research project, you will be added to the `opensafely` GitHub organisation. Within the `opensafely` GitHub organisation, you’ll be added to the `researchers` team.

Reviewer 2: The `researchers` team feels like an implementation detail that researchers shouldn't need to care about, and it'll change in future, so it's probably okay to leave it out:

```suggestion
When you are approved to start working on an OpenSAFELY research project, you will be added to the `opensafely` GitHub organisation.
```

Contact [Tech Support](how-to-get-help.md/#slack) and ask them to create a new repository for your research, or transfer a repository from your personal GitHub account into the `opensafely` GitHub organisation (depending on your preference, and whether you have an existing repository to transfer).

> Newly-created and trasnferred repositories will be configured with the settings listed in [Default `opensafely` repository settings](#default-opensafely-repository-settings), above.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
Newly-created and transferred repositories will be configured with the settings listed in the [default `opensafely` repository settings](#default-opensafely-repository-settings).
```

> Repositories will initially be public, but may be (temporarily) set to private at your request. See [Repository visibility](#repository-visibility) to make the right choice for your study.

Reviewer: suggestion:

```suggestion
Repositories will initially be public, but may be temporarily set to private at your request. See [Repository visibility](#repository-visibility) to make the right choice for your study.
```

### Established researchers and projects

Contact [Tech Support](how-to-get-help.md/#slack) to request the creation of any additional repositories you require. Please provide a name for the repository when you make a request. Your repository name should be short but informative &mdash; browse [existing repo names](https://github.com/orgs/opensafely/repositories) for inspiration.

> All repositories will be created using the OpenSAFELY [research-template repo](https://github.com/opensafely/research-template). You can see a detailed breakdown of this repository’s structure in [Repository structure](#repository-structure).

Reviewer: suggestion:

```suggestion
All repositories will be created using the OpenSAFELY [research-template repo](https://github.com/opensafely/research-template). Refer to the [detailed breakdown of this repository’s structure](#repository-structure).
```

## Transferring your own repository to the `opensafely` GitHub organisation

> You may want to start work on a project before approval by creating a repository in your own GitHub account (see [instructions for how to do this](#creating-a-research-repository-in-your-own-github-account-so-that-you-can-transfer-it-later), below). You can request that this repository is transferred to the `opensafely` organisation at a later date.

Reviewer: suggestion:

```suggestion
You may want to start work on a project before approval [by creating a repository in your own GitHub account](#creating-a-research-repository-in-your-own-github-account-so-that-you-can-transfer-it-later). You can request that this repository is transferred to the `opensafely` organisation at a later date.
```

!!! warning
    Creating a repository owned by your GitHub user account will enable you to:

    - work on your OpenSAFELY research code in Codespaces
    - check that your research code works with the OpenSAFELY platform

    It will not allow you to run code on OpenSAFELY's platform. For that, you would have to request that your repository is transferred to the `opensafely` organization.

### How to transfer an existing repository to the opensafely organization

To transfer a repository from your personal GitHub account to the OpenSAFELY organisation, follow the instructions [here](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/transferring-a-repository#transferring-a-repository-owned-by-your-personal-account). You will then need to contact [Tech Support](how-to-get-help.md/#slack), to request approval for the repository transfer.

> If your request is approved, Tech Support will notify you once the transfer has been completed. You will also be able to see the repository on the `opensafely` organisation [Repositories page](https://github.com/orgs/opensafely/repositories).

Reviewer: suggestion:

```suggestion
To transfer a repository from your personal GitHub account to the OpenSAFELY organisation:

1. Follow [GitHub's instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/transferring-a-repository#transferring-a-repository-owned-by-your-personal-account) to initiate a transfer.
1. Contact [Tech Support](how-to-get-help.md/#slack) to request approval for the repository transfer.
1. Tech Support will notify you once the transfer has been completed. You will also be able to see the repository listed in the [`opensafely` organisation](https://github.com/orgs/opensafely/repositories) once transferred.
```

> The settings of any transferred repositories will be updated to match the default `opensafely` repository settings, listed below:

Reviewer 2: It might be better to just link to the section above about `Default opensafely repository settings` rather than repeat it here, otherwise they risk diverging.

- Deletion of branches on merge: enabled
- Branch protection for `master` and `main` branches: enabled
- Require a pull request before merging: disabled

> 

Reviewer: thought: We could say that the branch protection setting is mandatory, and "require a pull request before merging" can be enabled on request.

This is in response to:

> 2. Do we want to add a note to researchers in the "Default opensafely repository settings" section, to let them know they can request alternative settings e.g., require 'n' reviews on a pull request?
